Avan: Just as Dai, the Hero,
is the only one who can
defeat the Dark King...
there's only one person
who can help him
unlock his full potential...
and that person is
the one who's been...
fighting by his side ever
since the beginning.
Th-That's you.
I-It's always been you, Popp.
Remember to work together...
and win this thing.
All: Master!
Master...
I hope you can see us...
Because, no matter
what it takes...
We'll get the Dark King.
I promise we
won't let you down.
A promise you can't keep.
What do you think
you're doing?
Vearn's about to use
that attack again!
Hurry up and ready yourselves!
No need.
Don't worry, guys.
No way Vearn will start off
with his biggest move.
That's not how the Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth works.
You see, it's not
that kind of skill.
I understand now.
It's the ultimate stance for
defense, but not offense.
It only works as well as
it does when countering.
Popp: It might let him use three
different skills at once...
But if he uses
it to strike first,
it's really just
a triple attack...
and there's four of us.
Besides, why would
he waste the energy?
His other skills are
already fearsome enough
to defeat most enemies.
He said it takes
all his strength.
I'll bet Vearn only uses
the Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth
when he doesn't have
any other choice.
Facing a truly powerful enemy,
I figure he lets
them make the first move.
That gives him a
chance to hit them
with his superior skills of
attack, defense, and magic...
completely obliterating them.
It's an unbeatable
combination.
Popp: Only, if what
he said is true,
it means he has to charge
a massive amount of energy
before he can unleash it.
These aren't
your average attacks,
they're on a different level.
Hitting his opponent
with all three...
that must be what
causes such destruction.
And I'm guessing that
this immovable stance
isn't just to make his
enemies attack first, either.
It probably lets him
conserve energy,
storing everything
he's got in his core,
then unleashing
it all at once.
Well, how insightful...
Avan's parting words
weren't said out of
desperation, after all.
True Vearn: I'm impressed
that a fledgling like you
could comprehend
my ultimate skill.
True Vearn: But,
knowing that, I wonder...
What can you do?
How exactly do you
intend to fight?
Once I take this
stance, it's over.
No one among you has
the mettle to break it.
And at this point,
buying time is meaningless.
Dai's wounds were
inflicted by Dark Aura.
So try what you might,
your healing spells
will have no effect.
Popp [thought]: He's right.
Dai's not healing at all,
so if that's not
changing anytime soon...
Then it's up to me.
It'll take some luck,
but I think I have one
way of taking him down.
We need to hit him in
that split second
where he's open after
launching one of his attacks...
Right before he charges
into the next one.
Popp [thought]: But with
everybody in such rough shape...
I also never said
I couldn't initiate
a different attack
in the meantime.
It would have been wise
not to forget that.
He dropped his stance!
Larhart: Here he comes!
Larhart, Hym? Listen up.
I know this is a lot to ask,
considering how we barely
know each other, but I...
I'm gonna need you
both... to get hit.
[pained howl]
I can see why humans
of the ancient world
believed that thunder
was the sound of
the gods fighting in
the heavens above.
Gods or not, you can feel their
power all the way down here.
I've never seen
anything like this.
Dai and the others
must be fighting
the Dark King as we speak.
Lon Beruk: With such
astonishing energy...
There's no ifs, ands,
or buts about it:
Either the Dark King falls,
or the Surface World
comes to an end.
It's one or the other.
Hyunckel: They're
no match for him.
Crocodine: Vearn's
on another level.
Leona: No...
Please... Stop...
[evil laughter]
Your friends are losing
their faith in you.
If only you could hear
their cries of anguish, Dai.
It's lovely.
True Vearn: They were so certain
they could help you win...
yet in the end, they made the
same mistake as the Princess.
And now, gentlemen...
This game is mine.
No, c'mon...
Popp: It's no use. I can
barely even move here...
Actually, make that
"I can't move at all."
Was this all for nothing?
Larhart: Y-You asked us...
To... To give
our lives to you...
So tell us.
What should we do?
If there's any hope of winning,
we'll give whatever it takes...
Just say the word.
We can't hold out much longer.
If you can't hold out,
then there's no hope at all.
My plan wasn't anything
complicated...
it was just the opposite.
I was thinking about
what you said earlier...
About being a shield for Dai.
We've already taken a pretty
serious beating here...
In this state, none of us will
be able to face Vearn directly.
And that was why...
I wanted us to absorb his
blows and create an opening.
If we could manage that,
Dai could focus on the
offensive and knock him dead.
What do you mean, "Wanted"?
Y-You're talking past tense?
It looks like I
underestimated him.
Vearn's hitting so hard...
I'm not sure if we can
even take one more round
without it destroying us...
P-Popp... I can't-
I've wasted quite enough time.
Now, I shall end this farce...
and wipe you all out
with my Calamitous Wall.
[chuckling]
Oh, by the way,
it's likely that some of
these poor little Eye Jewels
will be disintegrated
along with you.
He means me, doesn't he?!
But not to worry. I'll make sure
that this one moves slowly.
That way, you may savor your
fear for all it's worth.
Calamitous Wall!
True Vearn: [evil cackle]
Not a chance!
I'm not going down
as some joke.
I'm not giving up.
No matter what
he throws at us...
I'll never give up!
I swear it. I'm not sure how,
but I'll survive this
Calamitous Wall.
If we can't withstand this, Dai
will never get his moment...
That means...
I'll have to do
something big to get Vearn
to use his ultimate
skill one more time!
What are you saying?!
Don't be a fool.
Didn't you see the three
of us fail just now?
How do you expect
to take this on alone?
Popp: I'm still
working that part out.
What I know for sure is,
the Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth
can't be beaten head-on.
But I'm sure...
the moment he unleashes that
ultimate skill of his...
is also the moment he's
most vulnerable to attacks!
Good call.
You had the same
idea that I did.
The way I see it, it's
the only option we've got.
First we have to withstand all
three of his super attacks,
then right after that,
we hit him as hard as we can.
Perfect timing.
It's a long shot, but that's
the only way to defeat him.
Except, I couldn't do it alone.
I knew if I tried,
it'd probably kill me.
Great minds really do
think alike, don't they?
Nice going, partner. If you
ask me, that settles it.
We've got our plan, and
you're not alone anymore.
You've got allies here
who are willing to suffer
those super attacks for you.
We'll get him open.
Even if it means getting hit
by all three of them myself,
I'll make sure you get
your window to strike back.
Hym [thought]: Wait...
He's serious.
These guys are
out of their minds.
It's an impossibility
within an impossibility...
And that's all assuming
we can get him to use
his ultimate skill again.
Before we get started,
we'd better take care of
the problem at hand...
It's still a gamble
whether or not
the Dark King will
actually take his stance.
Let's roll the dice -
it's now or never!
Chiu: Wait! Stay back!
Chiu: Little Hym!
Hym: Sounds fun, Popp.
You can count me in for a
hopeless gamble like that.
I wouldn't miss it...
Though, sadly,
I don't think I'll be able to
stick around to see how it ends.
Hym, wait!
Larhart: You've
gained my respect
for the first time, Pawn.
Larhart: But I won't
let you outdo me
when it comes to displays of
our loyalty to Master Dai!
I can't see anymore...
Tell me, which way is Vearn?!
Hym: This way, Larhart.
Come on!
[roaring]
Popp, you can have my life.
Mine too. Make it count!
Larhart, Hym!
You don't have to -
This is it. They're
really going for it.
Hym [thought]: Even at full
strength, I couldn't touch him.
I doubt any attack I can
muster will do much better.
In that case...
Larhart [thought]:
We'll be living bullets.
Just as long as he
takes that stance...
True Vearn: These two are
truly prepared to die.
True Vearn [thought]:
Such admirable intensity...
True Vearn [thought]: No simple
attack can counter them...
So be it.
Demonic Guard of
Heaven and Earth!
True Vearn: W-What? No -
True Vearn [thought]: Medroa?!
True Vearn: Phoenix... Wing!
[laughing]
Well done. You caught
me by surprise.
Impressive.
Not only did you manage
to orchestrate an attack
which forced me to take
this stance again,
but by using a delayed
Medroa incantation...
You actually backed me
into a corner there.
But, unfortunately for you...
now that you've
revealed your ace,
you've expended your options.
True Vearn [thought]:
What is this?
I... I can't drop my stance...
Something inside of me
must still sense a threat!
Could it be? Do they still...
Popp [thought]: Larhart,
Hym, we really owe you one.
Even though we used
to be your enemies,
both of you have put so
much on the line for us.
Popp [thought]:
Thanks to you,
we might even have
a chance at victory!
Dai [thought]: We won't
let this go to waste.
This is your final
attack, is it?
All right, then.
Go ahead and try.
Popp: You might regret it...
Mister Dark King!
And how do you figure that?
Do I have to spell
it out for you?
This last attack we have...
is gonna smash through
your Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth,
and blast you back
to the Underworld!
Don't make me laugh.
Whether it's Gigastrash
or Medroa...
By now, you should know
that even your most
powerful attacks
are useless against me.
You really don't
get it, do you Vearn?
We haven't made our move yet.
Popp wasn't trying to defeat
you when he cast Medroa...
He did it so we could
make sure our plan
was actually gonna work.
Oh?
Popp: And it's exactly
like I thought.
Right after you use that
fancy stance of yours,
there's a slight delay before
you're ready to counter
another attack...
A split second when
you're not invincible.
I cast that Medroa so Dai
and I could see how to get
the timing just right with
what we're really going to do.
Now we know I was right.
We've seen you freeze
for ourselves.
On top of that, you must've
burned through so much power,
you couldn't properly deflect
the Medroa back at me...
Even Mystvearn managed to
do that without trying.
All to say, if we strike
at that exact moment...
We might barely be
able to stand,
but we've still got a chance
at turning this fight around.
An interesting idea.
Yes, I see. Perhaps
you are correct.
That explains why
I can't drop my stance.
I'm not surprised
you didn't know.
After all, this skill that
you believe so deeply in has
never failed to beat an
opponent before, has it?
Of course it hasn't.
The Demonic Guard of Heaven and
Earth is my ultimate skill.
To use it means to
absolutely erase my enemy.
None of them survive.
None of them may have found
your weakness - but we did.
Every great skill
comes at a price -
and in your case,
it's that opening.
I mean... It is a pretty
good skill, but really?
Showing it off so many times
when you don't know
it's weak point.
If you wanted to
secure a victory,
you should've kept
it simple and stuck
with some standard attacks...
Nice thinking, doofus.
Avan [thought]:
This is a gamble indeed.
With their stamina
drained, having Vearn
go back to attacking
normally might be worse.
He could overpower
them instantly.
Popp must be deliberately
testing Vearn's patience...
Trying to provoke him into
taking the stance again.
He's betting everything
on the Dark King
having absolute confidence
in that ability.
Very well, then.
My invitation still stands.
Popp [thought]:
All right, here we go.
It's all or nothing now.
I'm curious to see if that
little provocation of yours
winds up paying off
as well as you hope.
I never imagined that I could
possess such a weakness.
It's almost exciting,
to tell the truth.
But first...
True Vearn: And then
there were two.
Avan [thought]: Dai... Popp...
Hyunckel [thought]:
This is looking grim.
I don't know what
they're planning,
but these two are
far too wounded
to break through
Vearn's ultimate skill...
There's no one out
there to heal them.
Crocodine [thought]: Damnit!
This infernal cage...
I can't even be a shield for
them when they need me the most.
It seems Dai doesn't
have the stamina
to use Gigastrash anymore,
which means that option
is off the table...
And if you're
planning to bring
an end to this with
another Medroa,
There's no reason why I
wouldn't be able to deflect it.
Neither attack can be
used to finish me.
You're completely
out of moves here.
That's exactly
why I'm so intrigued.
There's no way that
the two of you could
possibly accomplish
this plan by yourselves.
Especially not in
your condition.
Like you say, you're
barely on your feet.
You won't be able to
withstand another blow.
So how exactly do you
intend to hit me?
Who will make
the deciding move?
This I have to see.
Popp: "Which of us will
make the deciding move"?
Isn't it obvious?
It's always the Hero who
defeats the Dark King!
Everybody knows that.
I'm the one who
plays the shield
against your ultimate skill!
Maam [thought]: Popp...
Popp [thought]: I did it!
I remembered when I
saw Mentor conjuring
two spells at once
way back when.
I thought maybe
I could swing
the same thing now, and...
It's working.
[laughing]
You're an incredibly
talented Mage, young man.
With all that Magic Power,
this may be better than
a single Medroa...
but given your talents,
I thought you'd be a
little brighter than this.
Do you not know
how to do simple math?
W-What do you mean?
True Vearn: Let's assume
that Explosion-type spell
you're holding is as
strong as a Kaboom spell...
And that you can also deal a
considerable amount of damage
with your remaining Magic Power
focused into that staff.
That adds up to two.
So what will you do
with my third attack?
If a frail human like
you takes a direct hit
without any magical
safeguards in place,
you'll be dust before
you become a shield.
True Vearn: First,
I'll use my Phoenix Wing
to deflect your spell by
swallowing it whole...
Then, I'll shatter your
weapon with my Calamitous End.
At that point,
you'll be defenseless.
To finish the job,
I'll hit you with the
combined force of your
deflected spell
and my Kaiser Phoenix.
True Vearn: You'll be
incinerated in an instant,
and then my
spell will hit Dai
before he can exploit
any weakness.
You'll both be
reduced to ashes.
That's how this will end.
[chuckling]
What a shame.
If only you had
a few more people,
things might be
very different.
Here it comes - Vearn!
You're doomed and yet...
you still try.
Dai: Vearn...
Popp might've been a little
unreliable at first,
but now he's anything but.
He's fought by my side
since the very beginning.
We've been through
it all together.
Dai: He's a friend
I trust with my life.
He's definitely saved it
enough, that's for sure.
Point is, if Popp says
he'll make an opening for me,
then he'll make an opening.
All I have to do is
trust him and focus
whatever's left of
my power on you.
And you'd better
remember this:
Even if it looks like it...
the two of us aren't
fighting you alone...
We might've been, back when we
first started this adventure,
but along the way,
we've met all kinds of
people who are on our side.
A few of them
have fought us,
and pretty much all of
them have rescued us...
But if even one of them
hadn't been there,
if they didn't
have our backs,
I'm willing to bet
we wouldn't be here.
Popp: Even if they're far
away from the battle...
Even if they can't speak
or move a muscle...
They're all right by our side.
We're all connected by
the bond of our souls.
That's a bond
nobody can break.
Maybe you can't see it, but
you'll feel it soon enough,
and I know it's
gonna surprise you!
True Vearn: I've
already said it once.
Must I really say it again?
You cannot destroy
my existence with a soul!
Here we go, Dai. Good luck.
The rest is up to
you from here.
Right!
[roaring]
Demonic Guard of
Heaven... and Earth!
[gasp]
Leona: No! Popp!
Crocodine [thought]:
It's no use.
This is just as Vearn
said it would go.
True Vearn: I told you,
didn't I? I was right!
[victorious laughing]
[gasp]
True Vearn [thought]:
The Mirror of Shahal?!
That's right, you big jerk.
Reflect it!
[roaring]
Narrator: Thanks to Larhart
and Hym's desperate charge,
Popp and Dai have found
a way to slip past
the Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth...
And wielding the
Mirror of Shahal,
Popp has also managed to
deflect Vearn's magic.
As the Dark King's
own flames consume him,
Dai spots his
moment to attack.
The fate of the Surface World
rests on our Hero's
next strike...
but Vearn has another
surprise in store for him.
Make sure not to
miss the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Greatest,
Final Comeback".